William S Berry

Sr. Software Engineer 
Niceville, Florida, United States
email: wsberry@gmail.com
github: https://github.com/wsberry

Summary 								

William Berry has an M.S. in Movement Science from Springfield College and a B.S. from the University of Maine in Biology. While at Springfield he developed a human model for calculating external joint reaction forces and moments about joints as well as software tools for data acquisition from force platform hardware and high speed cameras. 								

Recent work includes software engineering for the Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) researching embeddable networking libraries and concurrency frameworks such as ZeroMQ and gRPC. Algorithms were developed to support deterministic control of asynchronous services which were created using these tools. Most of the work I do requires working with multiple programming/scripting languages (e.g., C++, C#, Python, Bash, and Golang) and tools (e.g., Visual Studio, CLion, PYCharm, Xcode, and CMake) across a variety of OS platform versions including, but not limited to Windows, Linux, and the macOS.

Work Experience	

December 2015 - Current
Sr. Software Engineer, Anyar Inc.
Florida, United States 								

Languages/Tools:
C, C++, C#, Python, Golang, Docker, Bash, Visual Studio, CLion, Git, CMake, WinForms, gRPC, ZeroMQ, Elements C++ GUI Library 								

Researched and implemented cross-platform ZeroMQ model-based services (runtime deterministic) that are related to collaborative autonomous weapons simulation environment such as the Advanced Framework for Simulation (AFSIM). Adapted LegionX missile simulator to run missile model simulations in a distributed environment using the ZeroMQ Framework. 								
Researched gRPC, another high-performance open source and cross-platform RPC framework, to create secure and network-based munitions data bus services (also runtime deterministic) for the Weapon Open System Architecture (https://www.wintec-inc.com/weapon-open-system-architecture-wosa-development/) (WOSA). Designed and implemented cross-platform (Windows, Linux, macOS) C++ templated library to simplify the creation of gRPC services. 

Implemented a WOSA Binary Tools Library to assist developers in integrating WOSA Binary messages into software projects. It provides algorithms for memory safe transforms from idiomatic C++ into the WOSA Binary Protocol and vice versa (serialization and de-serialization); a bit-field template for abstracting WOSA binary data field bit-masking operations; floating point to binary16 (half-float) transformations; and a templated CRC (Cyclic Redundancy Check)
checksum library to detect bit errors during WOSA data transmission.

Adapted libraries from Georgia Tech Research Institute’s (GTRI) autonomy algorithm group for AFRL's AFSIM engineering group. Refactored and integrated software in a multi-language software environment. Integrated GTRI’s Linux based aircraft autonomy algorithms to the Windows platform and ported the Linux based Robot Operating System (ROS) to run on Windows. Replaced the ROS platform specific (Linux) sub/pub software library with a standard idiomatic C++ implementation buildable on any OS that supports a modern C++ compiler. Replaced the ROS RPC library with a new cross-platform implementation.

November 2013 - December 2015
Software Engineer IV, DCS Corporation
United States

Languages/Tools:
C++, C#, JavaScript, HTML5, AngularJS, Bootstrap CSS, Visual Studio, ReSharper

Designed and implemented code to support flight planning for the Boeing KC-135. Work included creating ASP.NET REST services integrated with a web-based user interface using HTML5, AngularJS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap CSS. Refactored Global Flight Planning (GFP) tool to incorporate aeronautical DAFIF data from the Joint Mission Planning System (JMPS). Extended application features with new functionality. This tool used web-based services from the Advance Computer Flight Plan (ACFP) system via WDSL (an XML-based protocol for information exchange in decentralized and distributed environments) in conjunction with SOAP, and HTTP REST based services. Integration with ACFP was accomplished using C# and .NET libraries.

May 2009 - October 2013
Sr Software Engineer, SURVICE Engineering Company
United States

Languages/Tools:
C, C++, C++ CLI, C#, FORTRAN, Visual Studio, CMake, Visual Studio Team Foundation, ReSharper

Technical lead of CWDS development team. Refactored weapons delivery module architecture and calculation engine. Assisted team in designing and writing code to support new features for the CWDS application which included updated UI/Presentation layers (WinForms and some WPF) to improve end-user workflow.

Created and taught workshops for the Mission Planners Users Conferences (MPUC) for the US Air Force, Navy, Marines, and Army related to designing scalable software architectures.

July 2001 - September 2009
Sr Software Engineer, TYBRIN Corporation Inc.
United States

Languages/Tools:
C, C++, C++ CLI, C#, Visual Basic, FORTRAN, Java, Pearl, Visual Studio, CMake, Visual Studio Team Foundation, ReSharper

Lead software engineer of the Portable Flight Planning System (PFPS) Modernization team (iPFPS). R&D effort using Agile processes and tools to modernize the PFPS product suite for the Army and Special Operations Command (SOCOM). Guided the team in creating an RPC architecture that supported end-user collaboration. A highlight of the work included assisting in the creation of new workflow and user-interface design that supported complex Special Operation Forces mission- planning along with more ‘traditional’ Air Force, Army, Navy and Marine mission-planning. Received special recognition award from the Air Force for the writing of and the presentation of the technical section of a proposal written for the Joint Weaponeering Common Component (JWCC) oversight group.

Education

M.S. Movement Science (3.8/4.0)
Springfield College
Springfield, Massachusetts, United States

Thesis - Developed a mathematical model for calculating moments of the joints and external joint reaction forces using high speed film analysis and force platform data. Data acquisition and modeling software was developed using both FORTRAN and the C programming languages.

B.S. Biology
University of Maine
Orono, Maine, United States

Skills Summary

Languages
C/C++, C#, Objective-C, Python, GoLang, Visual Basic, FORTRAN, JavaScript, Bash Scripting, Docker Scripting, CSS, HTML

Tools
Microsoft Visual Studio, CLion, Xcode, PyCharm, CMake, Git, Bash, Docker, Resharper, gRPC, ZeroMQ, Cycfi Elements, ImGui, Winforms

Operating Systems
Windows, Linux, macOS, and some iOS

Interests

Church Ministry (Bible Teaching), Family Events, Cycling, Hiking, Olympic Lifting (certified as a USA Level One Coach), CrossFit.

Work Authorization
I am authorized to work in the following countries: United States